okay,
guys would come into the end of the first section,
and we've managed to build a spreadsheet completely from scratch on.
We've also amazed to build a chart off of their spreadsheets.
Now,
at the moment,
although data is visible because the table is quite small in if resumed upto 100% by
clicking that button down there,
a table is still nice and easy to read.
Now,
this is useful if we only have a small data set.
But what if we have a larger data sets and we have twice as many lines?
So let's just go ahead and copy all of our data just down here.
I'm just gonna right clicking copy and then the bottom right click and insert copied cells
and hit escape.
They go.
So now a data set is twice as big.
Now,
at the moment,
we can't see the totals on the headings in the same view.
Now we could come down here and scroll out and they go No,
we can see the headings and the totals,
but it's getting a little more difficult to read.
And you can imagine if we have 1000 lines of data by the time you shrunk back down,
you wouldn't be able to read a thing.
Now,
Excel has a very useful way of dealing with this.
Let me just zoom back up to 100% and come.
That's the top of the page.
Okay?
We're gonna use the ribbon again,
and this time we're going to use the view section just here.
So I'm just gonna left click on view and that we're going to be looking at the windows
section and you can see in here we have an option called freeze panes.
And in freeze panes,
there are three different variations We have free Spain's freeze top row and freeze First
column.
Let's have a look at the freeze top row first.
So I'm just gonna left click free Stop row,
and you can probably see that is a faint lion appeared between lines one and two.
And what that is is when we scroll down,
we can see that our title is always visible.
Now,
that's partly useful,
but we still can't see what this particular terrible correspondence to because they're
headings are missing.
Okay,
So to remove that,
just left click again and choose on Freeze panes now.
Similarly,
we could choose Freeze First column,
and you probably guess what that does.
We now have a faint line between columns A and B.
So if we was a scroll over here,
you'll notice that our item always remains in view and all the rest of the columns move
over again.
Useful,
but not particularly useful for this exercise.
So what we're gonna do is unfreeze one more time on.
We're going to use the freeze panes option on its own.
If we always wanted to see our headings on,
we always wanted to see our items.
What we need to do is pick the first cell,
although data now,
when you use a freeze,
pain,
everything above the cell that you've selected and everything to the left of the cell you
selected will freeze where it is.
So because of selected Selby five for go ahead and click freeze panes.
Now you can no see that we have a faint line between lines four and five and we have a
faint line between columns A and B on.
What that's going to allow us to do is scroll down this way and you can see that I headings
of remaining in view and we can keep going.
So if we wanted to see it while our total sells for Friday,
where we can just scroll down and it's dead easy to see within the same view.
So Friday,
Total sales 46 Really,
really simple today,
I'm just gonna hit control,
went home to get up to the first cell again.
And similarly,
if we had a bunch of columns going way over to the side 2030 40 50 columns wide,
we can just simply scroll over.
And so we get there and we can see that instantly.
Even though there's a loaded data now out of you,
we can instantly Sparta Average sales for lettuces is eight.
So they go.
That's freeze panes.
Just remember,
with the free Spain's on the cell you've selected everything above and to the left will be
frozen.
So as long as you pick the right cell,
you find if you pick the wrong cell,
just hit unfreeze panes and have another go.
It is they go a very useful tool.
I'll see you in the next lecture